Exhibit Case Study
==================

Gulag: Many Days, Many Lives | Exhibit Site 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

###  Intro

The hardest part of developing any exhibit is creating and preparing the
content. [Gulag: Many Days, Many Lives](http://gulaghistory.org/) was
built with an NEH grant and took 2 ½ years to complete—including
research, writing, planning, and design.

Take a look at [Gulag: Many Days, Many Lives](http://gulaghistory.org/)
while reading through this breakdown of the site construction.

### Site Breakdown

-   Theme: “Gulag” theme designed for this site. (See,
    [Themes](Themes.html "Themes"))
-   Plugins: Dropbox (to handle large movie files), Exhibit Builder,
    Simple Pages
-   Major sections and pages:
    -   Homepage:
        -   Featured items and exhibit: You can feature any item from
            the admin/items screen and exhibits through editing the
            exhibit you would like to feature.
        -   Navigation titles: to edit the verbiage or to change the
            links in the main navigation, open and edit the header.php
            file found in the theme’s common
            folder: (themename/common/header.php). Find the
            `<div id=”primary-nav”>` and edit the text in between the
            single hash marks (‘Browse Items’).
            -   Some plugins add links to the main navigation
                automatically upon installation, such as the
                Exhibit Builder. To change the wording of “Browse
                Exhibits”, open the ExhibitBuilder folder in your plugin
                directory on the server and open the plugin.php
                file (plugins/ExhibitBuilder/plugin.php). Scroll down to
                function exhibit\_builder\_public\_main\_nav
                (\$navArray){navArray \[‘Browse Exhibits’\] =
                uri (‘exhibits’) You can edit the text in between the
                hash marks to read whatever you would like.
    -   Archive: this is a standard archive/browse page that is
        automatically generated by Omeka. By default, the items appear
        in reverse chronological order starting with the
        most-recently added.
    -   Exhibits: Lists exhibits from the /exhibits/browse page. Exhibit
        summaries are pulled in and displayed here.
        -   We built each exhibit using the Exhibit Builder and
            different layouts to display the type of content we had
            planned for each section and page. We created 10 sections
            w/4-5 pages each.
        -   We created a separate page layout for the first page of
            every section, because each featured a video and called for
            text available in the “transcript” field.
        -   To build Russian and English versions, we created 2
            identical but separate exhibits: one in each language. Omeka
            supports non-Roman characters, so on-screen display of
            Cyrillic characters was not a problem.
    -   Resources: The Teaching Resources and Bibliography are simple
        pages that we linked to here.
        -   Episodes in Gulag History is a WordPress blog that was
            installed in a separate folder called /podcast.
